# Final project

#Design and Placement
## Installation of a Unit
To keep the costs of installing and maintaining the camera systems affordable, we propose installing low-wattage (consumer-grade) cameras on top of lamp posts and wiring to their electric circuit. Installing on lamp posts is possible because they are designed to provide more power than the light bulb would need (San Francisco Public Utilities Commission, 2017). 
<br>The setup for each lamp post would be two spherical cameras that can capture footage from all angles at once installed on opposite sides of the lamp posts underneath the light bulb. This configuration would ensure that there are no blind zones underneath the lamp posts compared to single camera configuration at the very top. Modern consumer-level cameras, such as Samsung Gear 360, require less than 5 watts to live stream footage, resulting in 10 watts maximum for two cameras on one lamp post. The cost of this configuration would be around $300 per system (or $150 per camera) (Samsung Electronics, 2017). 
<br>The footage then will be transferred to a server with a machine learning algorithm to detect deadly weapons using publicly available #SFWIFI on Market Street. The speed of this wireless connection is 25 Mbps (San Francisco Department of Technology, 2018), which is enough for streaming in top-quality 4K (3840 * 2160 resolution) footage. For of the street with poorer connection speed, optimizations can be made by lowering the frames-per-second rate.

## Strategic Placement of Cameras
We have gathered data on all reported crimes in San Francisco from 2003 to 2015. From those, we filtered out crimes that occurred on Market Street and involved a weapon (a gun, knife, or other deadly weapons). We then used Esri’s ArcGIS interactive map to plot out a “heat map” of criminal locations (Fig. 4). 
<br>The camera placement algorithm to place cameras in the most optimal way allows much flexibility by allowing the user (a city planner) to input camera specifications, such as view distance (ground distance from which a knife is still distinguishable), blind spot radius (if it exists), and the number of cameras. Based on these parameters, the algorithm will ensure to capture places where crimes involving weapons often occurred in the past most efficiently. The algorithm uses recursion and calculates the most optimal positioning of n - 1, n - 2, …, 1 camera(s) where n is the inputted number of cameras to ensure that each of the cameras cover as much of area of potential criminal behavior as possible.
<br>The algorithm then marks the street lights where the cameras should be installed (Fig. 5) and provide a CSV table with pairs of exact latitude and longitude of the cameras for the city officials to follow and implement the plan.
Figure 5. A crop of a map with the optimal positioning of 30 cameras. Yellow dots indicate lamp posts currently installed on Market Street. Blue dots indicate lamp posts with our camera systems. As we can see, highly red areas (where crimes have been reported numerous times) will now be surveilled by our crime-detecting camera systems. The default configuration of cameras: no blind spot, view radius is 10 meters.

## Algorithm Demo
The algorithm requires data on locations and criminal activity statistics in the past and exact coordinates of lamp posts to determine the precise allocation of cameras. The demonstration illustrates algorithm’s functionality on Market Street, but it can also be used for other areas of different sizes and forms. For the demonstration of the algorithm, please refer to the attached video file (Pham, K., 2018).

## Impact measurement
To begin measuring impact, we ran a simulation based on previous incidents with different numbers and configurations of camera placement on Market from the 100 block to 1600 block (Fig. 6). We can observe that the plotted function behaves similarly to a logarithmic function which reduces its speed of growth as the argument increases. Accordingly, the acceleration of growth decreases in Fig. 7 where after 30 cameras, the increase in efficiency is less than 1 percent per camera added.  
